README.md, before:

# Lumen
 [![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-yellow.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)

 Lumen is a Vulkan ray tracing framework that contains a variety of variance reduction techniques. Its aim is to accelerate some of the well-known rendering techniques in computer graphics literature with the help of the ray tracing hardware in modern GPUs. All the techniques Lumen implements run fully on the GPU.

## Features
 ### Rendering Techniques

 - Unidirectional Path Tracer with Multiple Importance Sampling (Path)
 - Bidirectional Path Tracer (BDPT)
 - Stochastic Progressive Photon Mapping (SPPM)
 - Vertex Connection and Merging (VCM)
 - Primary Sample Space Metropolis Light Transport (PSSMLT)
 - Combined VCM + MLT Integrator (VCMMLT)
 - ReSTIR
 - ReSTIR GI
 - DDGI (Real time)

### Engine
 - Lambertian, mirror, glass, glossy and optionally Disney BSDF
 - Spot (point), polygonal and directional lights
 - JSON-based scene system
 - Modified Mitsuba parser
 - A lightweight Vulkan abstraction layer from scratch
 - EXR output (F10)
 - On-the-fly RMSE computation
 - SPIRV reflection
 - Render graph support with experimental Vulkan features
   - Automatic resource and synchronization management
   - Binding inference based on shader reflection results
   - Simple builder pattern

 ### About experimental features
 With the recently integrated render graph, Lumen uses some of the more experimental Vulkan features. These are namely,
  - Templated push descriptors (may be problematic with AMD)
  - Syncronization2 features (available from Vulkan 1.3)

### NOTE: As of 01.10.2022, there may be bugs with Vulkan syncronization2 API coupled with Vulkan Ray Tracing in the latest Nvidia GameReady drivers. If you encounter any issues, make sure to use the Vulkan beta drivers. If you encounter any issue in AMD cards (provided you have the requirements), make sure to also use the latest drivers. If issues related to the [render graph integration](https://github.com/yuphin/Lumen/pull/2) still persist, you can try out the commit in the [release](https://github.com/yuphin/Lumen/releases/tag/v1.0.0).

## Showcase
##### Caustics Glass (VCM)
![0](/media/GlassVCM.png?raw=true "Caustics Glass")

##### Caustics Zoomed (VCM)
![1](/media/CausticsZoomed.png?raw=true "Caustics Zoomed")

##### Mitsuba Torus (VCM)
![2](/media/TorusVCM.png?raw=true "Mitsuba Torus")

##### Japanese Classroom (Courtesy of [Benedikt Bitterli](https://benedikt-bitterli.me/resources/))
![3](/media/ClassroomPath.png?raw=true "Japanese Classroom")

##### ReSTIR 1 sample per pixel ([Video comparison](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1H2OWNuinCjOEpfb5OWKAA_yl25t9_Hol/view?usp=sharing))
![4](/media/ReSTIR1spp.png?raw=true "ReSTIR")
##### ReSTIR GI 1 sample per pixel ([Video comparison](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1UV1FpyMhtcX8cUo4CFIXFXhWI8UWr121/view?usp=sharing))
![5](/media/ReSTIRGI1spp.PNG?raw=true "ReSTIR GI")
##### Dynamic Diffuse Global Illumination (DDGI)
![6](/media/CornellDDGI.png?raw=true "DDGI")
## Building

To build Lumen, start cloning the repository with

```shell
git clone --recursive https://github.com/yuphin/Lumen.git
```
### Requirements
- Turing+ or RDNA2 GPU
- VS2022 or VS2019

Currently, Lumen only builds on Windows, however, there is no platform specific code in the codebase and it can be ported to Linux with ease.




## Usage
Some of the sample scenes can be found in the `scenes/` directory.
Sample scene files with various integrators can be found in the `scenes/cornell_box/` directory.

To load a scene file simply run:
```shell
Lumen.exe <scene_file>
```

## Getting started with Lumen
The best way to get started is to take a look at the unidirectional path tracer implemented in [src/Raytracer/Path.cpp](https://github.com/yuphin/Lumen/blob/master/src/RayTracer/Path.cpp) and gradually explore the other integrators. From there, you can focus on the related shaders that are located in the `src/shaders` folder.



## References

 - [Physically Based Rendering: From Theory to Implementation](http://www.pbr-book.org/)
 - [Light Transport Simulation with Vertex Connection and Merging](https://cgg.mff.cuni.cz/~jaroslav/papers/2012-vcm/)
 - [Spatiotemporal Reservoir Resampling for Real-time Ray Tracing with Dynamic Direct Lighting](https://cs.dartmouth.edu/wjarosz/publications/bitterli20spatiotemporal.html)
 - [ReSTIR GI: Path Resampling for Real-Time Path Tracing](https://research.nvidia.com/publication/2021-06_restir-gi-path-resampling-real-time-path-tracing)
 - [Robust Monte Carlo Methods for Light Transport Simulation](https://dl.acm.org/doi/10.5555/927297)
 - [Robust Light Transport Simulation via Metropolised Bidirectional Estimators](https://dl.acm.org/doi/10.1145/2980179.2982411)
 - [Dynamic Diffuse Global Illumination with Ray-Traced Irradiance Fields](https://jcgt.org/published/0008/02/01/)

Commit message:

Add an event API switch, fallback to pipeline barriers

README.md, after:

# Lumen
 [![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-yellow.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)

 Lumen is a Vulkan ray tracing framework that contains a variety of variance reduction techniques. Its aim is to accelerate some of the well-known rendering techniques in computer graphics literature with the help of the ray tracing hardware in modern GPUs. All the techniques Lumen implements run fully on the GPU.

## Features
 ### Rendering Techniques

 - Unidirectional Path Tracer with Multiple Importance Sampling (Path)
 - Bidirectional Path Tracer (BDPT)
 - Stochastic Progressive Photon Mapping (SPPM)
 - Vertex Connection and Merging (VCM)
 - Primary Sample Space Metropolis Light Transport (PSSMLT)
 - Combined VCM + MLT Integrator (VCMMLT)
 - ReSTIR
 - ReSTIR GI
 - DDGI (Real time)

### Engine
 - Lambertian, mirror, glass, glossy and optionally Disney BSDF
 - Spot (point), polygonal and directional lights
 - JSON-based scene system
 - Modified Mitsuba parser
 - A lightweight Vulkan abstraction layer from scratch
 - EXR output (F10)
 - On-the-fly RMSE computation
 - SPIRV reflection
 - Render graph support with experimental Vulkan features
   - Automatic resource and synchronization management
   - Binding inference based on shader reflection results
   - Simple builder pattern

 ### About experimental features
 With the recently integrated render graph, Lumen uses some of the more experimental Vulkan features. These are namely,
  - Templated push descriptors (may be problematic with AMD)
  - Event-based syncronization (via syncronization2 API, available from Vulkan 1.3)
    - Experimental feature, may not work depending on your driver (May need Vulkan beta drivers on Nvidia)
    - Enabled via `use_events` flag in the Render Graph settings. (See `RenderGraphSettings` in `RenderGraphTypes.h` and `RayTracer.cpp`)

## Showcase
##### Caustics Glass (VCM)
![0](/media/GlassVCM.png?raw=true "Caustics Glass")

##### Caustics Zoomed (VCM)
![1](/media/CausticsZoomed.png?raw=true "Caustics Zoomed")

##### Mitsuba Torus (VCM)
![2](/media/TorusVCM.png?raw=true "Mitsuba Torus")

##### Japanese Classroom (Courtesy of [Benedikt Bitterli](https://benedikt-bitterli.me/resources/))
![3](/media/ClassroomPath.png?raw=true "Japanese Classroom")

##### ReSTIR 1 sample per pixel ([Video comparison](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1H2OWNuinCjOEpfb5OWKAA_yl25t9_Hol/view?usp=sharing))
![4](/media/ReSTIR1spp.png?raw=true "ReSTIR")
##### ReSTIR GI 1 sample per pixel ([Video comparison](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1UV1FpyMhtcX8cUo4CFIXFXhWI8UWr121/view?usp=sharing))
![5](/media/ReSTIRGI1spp.PNG?raw=true "ReSTIR GI")
##### Dynamic Diffuse Global Illumination (DDGI)
![6](/media/CornellDDGI.png?raw=true "DDGI")
## Building

To build Lumen, start cloning the repository with

```shell
git clone --recursive https://github.com/yuphin/Lumen.git
```
### Requirements
- Turing+ or RDNA2 GPU
- VS2022 or VS2019

Currently, Lumen only builds on Windows, however, there is no platform specific code in the codebase and it can be ported to Linux with ease.




## Usage
Some of the sample scenes can be found in the `scenes/` directory.
Sample scene files with various integrators can be found in the `scenes/cornell_box/` directory.

To load a scene file simply run:
```shell
Lumen.exe <scene_file>
```

## Getting started with Lumen
The best way to get started is to take a look at the unidirectional path tracer implemented in [src/Raytracer/Path.cpp](https://github.com/yuphin/Lumen/blob/master/src/RayTracer/Path.cpp) and gradually explore the other integrators. From there, you can focus on the related shaders that are located in the `src/shaders` folder.



## References

 - [Physically Based Rendering: From Theory to Implementation](http://www.pbr-book.org/)
 - [Light Transport Simulation with Vertex Connection and Merging](https://cgg.mff.cuni.cz/~jaroslav/papers/2012-vcm/)
 - [Spatiotemporal Reservoir Resampling for Real-time Ray Tracing with Dynamic Direct Lighting](https://cs.dartmouth.edu/wjarosz/publications/bitterli20spatiotemporal.html)
 - [ReSTIR GI: Path Resampling for Real-Time Path Tracing](https://research.nvidia.com/publication/2021-06_restir-gi-path-resampling-real-time-path-tracing)
 - [Robust Monte Carlo Methods for Light Transport Simulation](https://dl.acm.org/doi/10.5555/927297)
 - [Robust Light Transport Simulation via Metropolised Bidirectional Estimators](https://dl.acm.org/doi/10.1145/2980179.2982411)
 - [Dynamic Diffuse Global Illumination with Ray-Traced Irradiance Fields](https://jcgt.org/published/0008/02/01/)
